---
page_title: "windows_local_user Resource - terraform-provider-windows"
subcategory: "Local"
description: |-
  Manage local users
---
# windows_local_user (Resource)

<!-- resource description generated from schema -->
Manage local users.
<!-- examples generated from example files -->
## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "windows_local_user" "this" {
  name                     = "MyUser"
  full_name                = "My User"
  description              = "This is a test user"
  password                 = "P@ssw0rd!"
  enabled                  = true
  password_never_expires   = true
  user_may_change_password = true
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Define the name for the local user. A user name can contain up to 20 uppercase characters or lowercase characters. A user name can't contain the following characters: `"`, `/`, `\`, `[`, `]`, `:`, `;`, `|`, `=`, `,`, `+`, `*`, `?`, `<`, `>`, `@`

### Optional

- `account_expires` (String) Define when the local user account expires. If not specified, the user account never expires.<br>The string time format is the following: `2023-07-25T20:43:16Z` (see [Terraform timetypes](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework-timetypes@v0.3.0/timetypes#RFC3339)).
- `description` (String) Define a description for the local user. The maximum length is 48 characters.
- `enabled` (Boolean) (Default: `true`)<br>Define whether the local user is enabled.
- `full_name` (String) Define the full name of the local user. The full name differs from the user name of the user account.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Define a password for the local user. A password can contain up to 127 characters.
- `password_never_expires` (Boolean) (Default: `true`)<br>Define whether the password of the local user.
- `user_may_change_password` (Boolean) (Default: `true`)<br>Define whether the local user can change it's own password.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the retrieved local security group. This is the same as the SID.
- `last_logon` (String) The last logon time of the local user.
- `password_changeable_date` (String) The password changeable date of the local user.
- `password_expires` (String) The time when the password of the local user expires.
- `password_last_set` (String) The last time when the password was set for the local user.
- `password_required` (Boolean) If true a password is required login with the local user.
- `sid` (String) The security ID of the local user.
## Import

Import a local user by the security ID (SID).

```bash
terraform import windows_local_user.my_user S-1-5-21-153895498-367353507-3704405138-1012
```
